Our naive implementation handles one batch at a time, calling torch._scaled_mm which calls
into PyTorch internally optimized blockscaled GEMV operations. Profiling this kernel we can
see a number of issues: 

* Tensor cores are completely unused, and it seems like there should
  be a way to use tensor cores effectively for a batched GEMV (which 
  is essentially just a bunch of GEMMs with the dimensions switched 
  around)
* Our memory throughput is poor by every metric: L1/L2 cache hit rates 
  are very low, shared memory is unused, long scoreboard stalls are 
  very high (the highest amongst all stalls, which means our computation
  is primarily being halted by waiting on data to arrive in registers), 
  we see a large amount of uncoalesced accesses to global memory in addition
  to the sectors/request ratio being 8 for loads. A sector is the smallest 
  unit of data that can be loaded from the L1 cache and a request is the 
  collection of loads/stores issued by all threads in a warp. So it is an
  indicator of uncoalesced accesses when we have a higher sectors/request
  ratio.
* Our compute throughput is also quite low. This might be partially because
  the problem size is rather small, but it's also due to compute stalling
  and waiting for memory ops frequently.
* Occupancy is at 65% which at face value isn't necessarily a bad thing, as
  occupancy doesn't have a direct relationship with compute performance in 
  most cases; however, it's something to consider as we design and test our
  kernel.
* Algorithmically it seems flawed, especially when we consider how massively
  parallel processors should be utilized, to compute one batch at a time
  serially. It seems like there should be a way to compute parts of multiple
  batches at a time to better utilize all compute units in the GPU. This links
  us back to our first point of using tensor cores and block-scaled MMA ops.


So how do we design our kernel? 

In general it's helfpul to look separately at how data is being moved in the GPU and how it 
is used to compute results. This will allow us to more simply improve our kernel iteratively, 
implementing and swapping in/out different techniques. 


A more detailed view of our naive kernel:



In our naive kernel we handle one batch at a time, only starting computation on the next batch
after the previous has completed in its entirety. Since our compute is so underutilized a natural
step forward would be to try to handle multiple batches at a time.

Taking this a step further, handling multiple batches within the same kernel call avoid kernel
launch overhead, and allows for more fine-grained latency hiding techniques to be employed.

v1: naive
v2: blocking along k, each CTA computes an output element
v3: incorporate warp shuffle into summation reduction
v4: have each warp compute certain number of outputs, each CTA computes a fragment of the output (with each warp contributing a single output)
    this improves coalescense, and allows for pipelining memory ops into SMEM to hide memory op latency

Optimizations:
- swizzling to avoid SMEM bank conflicts
- warp shuffle reduction
- coalesced / vectorized load/stores
- better blocking / algorithm
- tuning
- use DSMEM / reduce redundant GMEM loads
- scale value multiplications are independent of value multiplications so they can be parallelized
- pipelining using async/TMA to hide memory latency


After v4:
- Our sectors/requests is way down on loads (nearing 4 which is optimal for 128B transactions), indicating our
  loads are now being effectively coalesced
- However, our compute throughput is high while our memory/cache bandwidth and cache hit rates are both low. This
  indicates that although our accesses are coalesced our algorithm isn't structured in a way that maximizes the memory bandwidth. 
  This is likely because we issue our global reads inside loops serialized with computation, so we our mem op issue rate is too low.
  Additionally, our occupancy is somewhat low at about 50% indicating there aren't enough active warps resident on SMs to hide memory 
  latency. To fix the first issue we can perform computation in stages of memory loads -> compute ops via SMEM/DSMEM (this can later
  be pipelined to further hide latency). Additionally we need to look at exactly why our occupancy is low (e.g. register pressure, 
  CTA size, partial last wave) and address this so we can increase occupancy and better hide memory latency (this will be especially
  important when pipelining memory ops with compute ops)
- Use tensor cores to improve inner-most loop efficiency




Removing our redundant __syncthreads() call improved our SMEM caching runtime back to baseline, and we improved upon it to about 115us geom avg
with better index calculation schemes. 

However, our runtime is still being dominated by the ALU, which explains why pipelining didn't help at least initially, because we aren't memory bound (i.e.
"compute" is dominating our runtime). The main culprits are LOP3, PRMT, and IMAD instructions. We can take some steps to try and greatly reduce the number
of these instructions in the kernel, which should bring us to an inflection point where we stop seeing so many stalls and experience a large increase in
performance. This will also allow us to see more performance gains for future memory targeted techniques (like pipelining).

Reduce logical ops in ALU:
-> reduce reinterperet casts
-> reduce index calculation


In turns out CUDA intrinsics were doing logical bit manipulation to do type conversions, bogging down our computation. The sm_100a architecture provides
dedicated type conversion instructions however, these weren't being used in out compiled binary. The reason for this is we weren't compiling for arch
sm_100a, but even when we do and some of those instructions get used there is still unnecessary conversion math happening, converting to raw then real
types. By writing with raw PTX we give ourselves the granularity required to most efficiently perform the type conversions. In v0_ptx each thread in 
the warp now handles 32 NVFP4 elements, allowing float4 vectorized loads, and warp wide accumulation is done in half precision, although full k-dim
accumulation is still done in single precision before converting back to half precision to store.

Compiling with arch=sm_100a brings our runtime down by about 3x, converting to PTX and doing the aforementioned modifications results in ~5x speedup, so
our geom metric mean sits at about 29us now.

Now we need to re-examine our bottlnecks to see how to further improve.



Plan moving forward:

-> Implement async data transfer with TMA
-> Generalize algorithm to support different amounts of results per warp / warps per CTA (should just need to adjust c storage scheme)
-> Re-examine bottlenecks, what's preventing full utilization of the hardware?


What seemed to be preventing full hardware utilization is the tail effect. But when we get rid of the tail effect by forcing register reduction
we see issues with local load/store patterns






